Projects:

Warren Tech 50th Golden Arcade:
This game was a Wario Ware style game consisting of a mini game for each course offered at the Warren Tech schools with a simple art style that varied with each artist working on it and each course's mini game that was being played. In this project, I was a programmer.
What went well was dividing the project into sections, with each designer leading the section with a few programmers and the artists working with specific designers. This made it so that each programmer and artist had something specific to work on so no one was left to the side and everyone had some say as to what went into the final project. This also made it so that the programmers didn't really have to wait for someone else to finish something before they could work on it, they only needed the art assets and the designer's idea and they could start working.
What went wrong was the scope was too large for a game jam. At the start, we thought that we would be able to get all the mini games done that we wanted to, but in the end, the short time period and the small amount of artists made it so that only a couple games ended up getting finished and actually put into the game in order to make the deadline on time with an actual published game.
I learned that management of time is one of, if not the most important aspects of making a game so that everything can get finished by the set deadline and too wide of a scope is what can kill a lot of games that have a strict deadline. This is obviously one of the lessons that a game jam teaches on top of how to work under pressure, and how to work on a team. The need for time management is consistent across all projects, so learning how to do it properly is of paramount importance. When our scope got too wide, we had to keep narrowing it down to fit into our time frame and cut features that wouldn't be completable in time.

Tower 16:
This game was a visual novel game revolving around a character needing to accept their death. It was a fairly simple art style, consisting primarily pixel art. A color palette consisted across all of the art to make the different scenes flow together better. In this project, I was a sound designer and music creator. 
What went well was that it was fairly easy to make the songs because there wasn't really a specific way they had to sound, just a specific emotion they had to convey. The programming went very smooth as far as I knew since the engine we used; RenPy, was easy to understand and use. Once the story outline was finished, the programmers just had to make a text box saying what was supposed to be said, and then every so often make a choice that would change what would be shown next depending on what choice was made.
What went wrong was the script for the story was a little too ambitious so it took a little while to finish the script to the point that we kind of had to rush to get the entire thing into the game in time. The color palette for the game also took a little while to figure out how we wanted it to look so it was a while before we could start working on the art. One of the charaters took a little too long to make so there was less time to work on everything else, but that was a minor inconvenience since the art came out looking very nice.
I learned how to use FL Studio, and how long it takes to make a script and story-outline for a game that is very heavily story focused. FL Studio took a little while to learn, but luckily I had to Davian with me who was also making music so he showed me how to use FL Studio. While I didn't have anything to do with making the script or the story-outline, I was able to observe how long it took. It took Cade, Peyton, and Conner about a week to make the story and script, refine it, make it sound correct, and the go back over it and revise whatever mistakes they made. 

Joe's Automaton:
This game was an extremely simplistic cell automaton game based off of "Conway's Game of Life" with very simple pixel art. Unlike Conway's Game of Life however, our game had fully customizable game settings such as what cells count as a neighbor, what a cell should do if it had a certatin amount of active cells around it, and what color old cells and new cells should be. In this project, I was a designer.
What went well was that since the game was very simple, it was very easy to get the base code for the game created and it was very expandable and optimizable which gave us lots of room to make and add new features to make the game more fun.
What went wrong was that since the game was so simple, it didn't require very many scripts or art, so only 2 or 3 people actually worked on the game at a time while everyone else thought of new features we could add to our game. Not all of the features we thought of were added since we started off wanting to make it multiplayer but people would have to fight against each other to take over more tiles than their opponent, but we ended up just making it a single player automaton to follow along with the game jam theme of making a game that isn't a game.
I learned what an automaton is. Before we made this game, I only knew what an automaton was in the sense of something like a robot. Marshall had to explain what "Conway's Game of Life" is and how automatons work. I can use this knowledge in the future to have a better understanding of a wider spectrum of games.

Camping Trip:
This game is a 2D, top down horror survival game with retro pixel style graphics. The art style and how the game looked was described as Legend Of Zelda: Link to the Past style. In this project, I was a programmer.
What went well was we had a very interesting idea that wasn't too complex and didn't have a very large scope so we didn't feel like we had to abandon it. I really enjoyed the flood of joy when something would finally work in this project. While this same thing could be felt with all of the other projects, there wasn't enough time spent on them to be stuck with something not working for such a long time that it feels like walking on air when it finally works.
What went wrong was we started with a lot of features we wanted to add, but some of the more important ones backed on something else being finished. The things that had to be completed before we could make something else were always the hardest features to make so it took much longer to get them working the way we wanted. Due to the amount of time that was spent making some features work, other got time to work on them taken away so they are much farther away from being completed.
I learned how to use the godot engine, and the amount of effort and patience needed to make an actual game. Godot was a very frustrating engine at first, but once we started figuring out how it worked, we started having a much easier time making the other features that we hadn't completed yet. However, once we started learning more about the engine, we started trying to use more complex ways of completing something which made it take longer to finish. The amount of  effort and frustration that has been exhausted on this project is astounding, but once we get it finished, it will all be worth it to have a published game that our friends, family, and we can play.
